docs/pages/install.mdx, before:

import { Callout, Steps } from "nextra/components";

# Installation

Installing Clockwork is quick and easy, and should take less than a few seconds. The install script is the fastest way to set it up, it handles downloading the binary for your platform and adding it to the path.

### Windows

Run this command in Powershell:

```shell copy
Invoke-WebRequest -Uri https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Turtlepaw/clockwork/refs/heads/main/install/install.ps1 -UseBasicParsing | Invoke-Expression
```

### Linux/MacOS

```shell
curl -s https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Turtlepaw/clockwork/refs/heads/main/install/install.sh | sudo bash
```

<Callout type="info">
  This script will download the latest release of Clockwork and add it to your
  path.
</Callout>
<Callout type="info">
  Manual installation of files in `wff-build-tools` is no longer required
</Callout>

## Download locations

| Operating System  | Path                      |
| :---------------- | :------------------------ |
| Microsoft Windows | `%USERPROFILE%\Clockwork` |
| Linux             | `/usr/local/bin`          |

<Callout type="warning">
  Mac OS is currently not *officially* supported, but you may be able to use the
  Linux script.
</Callout>

## Uninstalling Clockwork

We're sad to see you go, if you have encountered any issues, please open an issue.

<Steps>
### Delete the installation folder
```shell
rm -rf "$CLOCKWORK_HOME"
```

### Remove environment variables

Clockwork sets 2 environment variables:

- `CLOCKWORK_HOME`
- `CLOCKWORK_VERSION`

You will have to remove them manually.

</Steps>

Commit message:

feat: add installPath option to install script (windows)

docs/pages/install.mdx, after:

import { Callout, Steps } from "nextra/components";

# Installation

Installing Clockwork is quick and easy, and should take less than a few seconds. The install script is the fastest way to set it up, it handles downloading the binary for your platform and adding it to the path.

### Windows

Run this command in Powershell:

```shell copy
Invoke-WebRequest -Uri https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Turtlepaw/clockwork/refs/heads/main/install/install.ps1 -UseBasicParsing | Invoke-Expression"
```

<Callout type="info">
  You can set a custom installation path by appending the path to the script, like:

```shell copy
Invoke-WebRequest -Uri https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Turtlepaw/clockwork/refs/heads/main/install/install.ps1 -UseBasicParsing | Invoke-Expression -ArgumentList "-installPath 'C:\CustomPath'"
```

It's highly recommended to use the default path as there may be issues with the script if you use a custom path.

</Callout>

### Linux/MacOS

```shell
curl -s https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Turtlepaw/clockwork/refs/heads/main/install/install.sh | sudo bash
```

<Callout type="info">
  This script will download the latest release of Clockwork and add it to your
  path.
</Callout>
<Callout type="info">
  Manual installation of files in `wff-build-tools` is no longer required
</Callout>

## Download locations

| Operating System  | Path                      |
| :---------------- | :------------------------ |
| Microsoft Windows | `%USERPROFILE%\Clockwork` |
| Linux             | `/usr/local/bin`          |

<Callout type="warning">
  Mac OS is currently not *officially* supported, but you may be able to use the
  Linux script.
</Callout>

## Uninstalling Clockwork

We're sad to see you go, if you have encountered any issues, please open an issue.

<Steps>
### Delete the installation folder
```shell
rm -rf "$CLOCKWORK_HOME"
```

### Remove environment variables

Clockwork sets 2 environment variables:

- `CLOCKWORK_HOME`
- `CLOCKWORK_VERSION`

You will have to remove them manually.

</Steps>
