docs/pages/guides/packages.mdx, before:

import { Callout, Steps } from "nextra/components";
import { Manifest } from "@/components/manifest";

# Installing Packages

### Install a manifest package

A [manifest package](/developers/manifest) is a package that is listed in the [`manifest.yml`](https://github.com/Turtlepaw/clockwork/blob/main/manifest.yml). To install a manifest package, run the following command:

```shell
clockwork install <package-name>
```

<Callout type="info">
  For a full list of packages in the manifest, see [Packages in the
  manifest](#packages-in-the-manifest).
</Callout>

### Install a package from git

```shell
clockwork install <git-url>
```

<Callout type="warning">
  Packages installed from git are not verified by Clockwork and do not meet [our
  requirements](/developers/manifest#requirements-for-a-package-to-be-added-to-the-manifest),
  install at your own risk.
</Callout>

## Listing packages

You can view all your packages by running:

```shell
clockwork packages
```

This will list all packages in [`clockwork.yml`](/developers/package) and their versions.

## Importing Packages

Clockwork works best in combination with [XML Preprocessor](https://github.com/gondwanasoft/xml-preprocessor), so you can import components into your XML code:

```xml {2}
<WatchFace>
  <Import href="packages/my-awesome-package/component.xml"/>
</WatchFace>
```

In this example, we import the component from `packages`, where Clockwork stores all your downloaded packages, currently this is the only way to import components from packages, but that will change in the future. Visit XML Preprocessor's [documentation on `<Import/>`](https://github.com/gondwanasoft/xml-preprocessor?tab=readme-ov-file#import) to learn more.

## Packages in the manifest

<Manifest />

Commit message:

feat: scripts, rename manifest to registry, and fixes

docs/pages/guides/packages.mdx, after:

import { Callout, Steps } from "nextra/components";
import { Manifest } from "@/components/manifest";

# Installing Packages

### Install a package from the registry

A [registry package](/developers/registry) is a package that is listed in the [`registry.yml`](https://github.com/Turtlepaw/clockwork/blob/main/registry.yml). To install a registry package, run the following command:

```shell
clockwork install <package-name>
```

<Callout type="info">
  For a full list of packages in the registry, see [Packages in the
  registry](#packages-in-the-registry).
</Callout>

### Install a package from git

```shell
clockwork install <git-url>
```

<Callout type="warning">
  Packages installed from git are not verified by Clockwork and do not meet [our
  requirements](/developers/registry#requirements-for-a-package-to-be-added-to-the-registry),
  install at your own risk.
</Callout>

## Listing packages

You can view all your packages by running:

```shell
clockwork packages
```

This will list all packages in [`clockwork.yml`](/developers/package) and their versions.

## Importing Packages

Clockwork works best in combination with [XML Preprocessor](https://github.com/gondwanasoft/xml-preprocessor), so you can import components into your XML code:

```xml {2}
<WatchFace>
  <Import href="packages/my-awesome-package/component.xml"/>
</WatchFace>
```

In this example, we import the component from `packages`, where Clockwork stores all your downloaded packages, currently this is the only way to import components from packages, but that will change in the future. Visit XML Preprocessor's [documentation on `<Import/>`](https://github.com/gondwanasoft/xml-preprocessor?tab=readme-ov-file#import) to learn more.

## Packages in the registry

<Manifest />
